Start structuring your data set early, but it's never too late.
Ideally, you should design your data set structure at the start of a project,
but if that wasn't done, restructuring it midway or even at the end is still worthwhile.
Here are key elements to consider.
Folder Structure
Organize data logically.
For example, create separate folders for raw data, process data, documentation, and analysis scripts.
Group-related files together and avoid clutter.
File Formats
Choose formats that are open and widely supported.
For example, use CSV instead of Excel for tabular data, or TIFF instead of proprietary image formats like .sy.
Open formats support long-term access and reuse.
Naming conventions
Use descriptive and consistent names for files and folders.
Avoid vague labels like data underscore final 2.xlsx.
Instead, use names that clearly describe the content or version.
The goal is to help others, and yourself, quickly understand the data set structure in contents, even years later.
We'll now look at tools and models that can guide this process.